Okay, here we go.
I had the good fortune, which is maybe apparent by the
gray beard, to be around almost 30 years ago and was
invited by Tim O'Reilly to the first kind of
gathering of people where he wanted to gather momentum behind this term
called open source as something of its own meaning and definition.
And the first open source conferences, I fell in love with
protocols and built Jabber XMPP back in the 90
s, again, almost 30 years ago.
Thank you.
And so I've seen this whole arc of open source from
the very beginning and how it's changed over the years and
really what it's become with the kind of GitHub architecture where
we're at today.
And we're facing something new now.
And I've been telling people code is tap water.
It is that available.
It is that common.
Everyone's going to have access to it.
So I am putting forth an idea that I had last fall
, that the future of open source is social.
And of course, it's built on Proto.
Today, when you look at most open source activity, it
is forks and clones.
It goes through PRs and there's issues.
It all goes to upstream.
There's maintainer, a group of maintainers.
And while the ESR is original cathedral and bazaar
, right, there's a lot of, you know,
this looks like a cathedral again, even though there's just
a lot of little cathedrals.
And I believe that we can actually build on at Proto
something that is a true bazaar, where the features
and capabilities that people are developing and creating are moving between each
other peer to peer.
No gatekeepers, no upstream, no waiting for releases or
merging.
You just have capabilities that flow.
Every repo becomes alive.
Every copy of the repo becomes alive.
And there's no upstream.
It's all sideways.
Today, when you think about software development, people have features
they want created.
It often goes to like an architect or designer or, you
know, a developer who's planning those features and creates maybe
a requirements document or a scope of what they're going to
implement.
And then it goes into a developer who's actually like doing
the engineering and the code and they output code.
And it gets distributed using Git.
So I thought, what if we've got these coding agents
that make everything different?
What if when people now are using coding agents directly, they
don't have to be developers anymore.
They create a new feature or capability on top of an open
source project.
They can just tell the coding agent, package up and describe
this feature, how you implemented it, not the code,
the description of the feature.
This capability, that is what we share.
That is the new form of open source peer-to-
peer sharing.
And that is what I called VIT, short for vital
ity, thinking that every code can be alive and be vital
, every repo.
And so now any open source or any open source project with
a coding agent can take a description of a capability or a
feature and it can implement it for that person.
You never need to pull a release or an upstream again.
It becomes yours and it lives in your features and capabilities coming
from other people.
So the things that you can share socially, you can capture
up skills, right?
Today, you can take those skills and share them and just
post them.
And they can come from your network, the people that you
follow.
And more importantly, you can take the capabilities, these structured
change instructions, these improvements, and the people that you trust
can actually publish these and you can go follow them and then
you can post and share things back.
The capabilities are what really grow a code base to adapt to
your, what things that you want.
And both, and the skills teach agents new things and they
both flow through the same trust network.
It is a human and agent collaboration process.
As a human, you're still logging into Blue Sky.
You still have to vet that to make sure that this is
something safe for it to implement.
And you, if you believe in it and you've used
it, you can vouch for it too, right?
And those signals go into the network very similar to likes and
reposts.
Your agent actually does the work to skim the network,
to look at what is available and maybe look at what capabilities
it thinks you might like and present to you things that it
could implement on your behalf.
It can, you can tell it to remix those into your
code base.
Then you can package it up and say, ship this new
thing that I did back into the network.
And other agents out there using that will be able to see
those capabilities.
And you can tell it to learn a new skill, like
go look for other people that I'm following and skills that
they've published and go learn that skill.
It's all built on AppRoto.
These are just lexicons that live in your PDS
with posts.
It is your trust graph.
It is your agents that work the network on your behalf and
everybody can build, share, build, share, build,
share.
That is VIT.
And it is as easy to get started as NPM install
VIT.
And you can VIT login and you can go initialize
any open source project to use VIT and use your coding
agent.
It will know how to do everything.
It comes with a skill and we can make the world of
open source social in the future.
That's it.
So there's a whole